# Learning Materials (Technical Manual)

As explained in Identifying Possible Instructional Materials and Textbooks, there are several factors to consider when selecting learning materials. In addition to these factors, the LXD should be aware of the following:
- **Take time to look for learning materials from historically underrepresented perspectives. Seek, and take opportunities to highlight the POV of authorities in the field who may be habitually ignored, but who are covering the same concept(s).**
- PDFs: should be supplied whenever possible and appropriate. An APA citation of the publications should be included along with the link to the PDF. Additionally, if there is a website that requires an account, encourage the SME to provide the article in a PDF format with the citation. Whenever possible, we should refrain from asking students to create accounts. PDFs should be screen readable and fully accessible; in some cases, [Google Drive is able to convert images and PDFs to text](https://support.google.com/drive/answer/176692?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DDesktop) to support this requirement.
- Textbooks: If a textbook will be used in its entirety, the purchase price should not exceed $100 (some exceptions allowed). The book should also be available in a digital format (such as an ebook). In specific situations when a hardcopy text will be used in a class, the SME should provide the first week’s readings in a digital format to allow time for students to acquire hard copies. If sections of the textbook are being used, they must follow Fair Use regulations. See below for more details.
  - Some books are not widely available as ebooks or in a digital format. Any use of a textbook that is available only in physical formats must be for exceptional reasons, such as no alternative textbook existing, and must be approved by the Dean. If such an exceptional case is pending, the ID must reach out to the  Associate Dean for Retention and Completion, to verify that there at least exists digital editions of the textbook for students who need them to accommodate issues of accessibility. The Associate Dean for Retention and Completion has access to a database that provides such digital editions for textbooks not otherwise available digitally. If the desired textbook cannot be purchased in a digital format and is NOT available via the Associate Dean’s accessibility database, the SME needs to select a different text for the course, or meet the learning materials needs of the course without a textbook.
- Youtube Videos: should be appropriate in terms of duration, content, and purpose. Captioning should also be available.
- Lecture Slides: If including the presentation from the Weekly Lecture video, upload it in PDF format.
- Podcasts: need written transcriptions and should be of a reasonable duration.
